summarization) to automatically monitor logs for intrusion attempts and other suspicious
system behavior.
In addition to the local log files created by the steps in this section, it is also recommended
that sites collect copies of their system logs on a secure, centralized log server via an
encrypted connection. Not only does centralized logging help sites correlate events that
may be occurring on multiple systems, but having a second copy of the system log
information may be critical after a system compromise where the attacker has modified the
local log files on the affected system(s). If a log correlation system is deployed, configure it
to process the logs described in this section.
Because it is often necessary to correlate log information from many different systems
(particularly after a security incident) it is recommended that the time be synchronized
among systems and devices connected to the local network. The standard Internet protocol
for time synchronization is the Network Time Protocol (NTP), which is supported by most
network-ready devices. See the ntpd(8) manual page for more information on configuring
NTP.
It is important that all logs described in this section be monitored on a regular basis and
correlated to determine trends. A seemingly innocuous entry in one log could be more
significant when compared to an entry in another log.
Note on log file permissions: There really isn't a "one size fits all" solution to the
permissions on log files. Many sites utilize group permissions so that administrators who
are in a defined security group, such as "wheel" do not have to elevate privileges to root in
order to read log files. Also, if a third party log aggregation tool is used, it may need to have
group permissions to read the log files, which is preferable to having it run setuid to root.
Therefore, there are two remediation and audit steps for log file permissions. One is for
systems that do not have a secured group method implemented that only permits root to
read the log files (root:root 600). The other is for sites that do have such a setup and are
designated as root:securegrp 640 where securegrp is the defined security group (in
some cases wheel).

4.1 Configure System Accounting (auditd)
System auditing, through auditd, allows system administrators to monitor their systems
such that they can detect unauthorized access or modification of data. By default, auditd
will audit SELinux AVC denials, system logins, account modifications, and authentication
events. Events will be logged to /var/log/audit/audit.log. The recording of these events
will use a modest amount of disk space on a system. If significantly more events are
captured, additional on system or off system storage may need to be allocated.
157 | P a g e

