1.6.1 Configure SELinux
SELinux provides a Mandatory Access Control (MAC) system that greatly augments the
default Discretionary Access Control (DAC) model. Under SELinux, every process and every
object (files, sockets, pipes) on the system is assigned a security context, a label that
includes detailed type information about the object. The kernel allows processes to access
objects only if that access is explicitly allowed by the policy in effect. The policy defines
transitions, so that a user can be allowed to run software, but the software can run under a
different context than the user's default. This automatically limits the damage that the
software can do to files accessible by the calling user. The user does not need to take any
action to gain this benefit. For an action to occur, both the traditional DAC permissions
must be satisfied as well as the SELinux MAC rules. The action will not be allowed if either
one of these models does not permit the action. In this way, SELinux rules can only make a
system's permissions more restrictive and secure. SELinux requires a complex policy to
allow all the actions required of a system under normal operation. Three such policies have
been available for use with Ubuntu and are included with the system: ubuntu, default,
strict, and mls. These are described as follows:






ubuntu: targeted rules developed for ubuntu specifically
default: targeted rules developed and maintained by Debian.

Consists mostly of
Type Enforcement (TE) rules, and a small number of Role-Based Access Control
(RBAC) rules. Targeted restricts the actions of many types of programs, but leaves
interactive users largely unaffected.
strict: also uses TE and RBAC rules, but on more programs and more aggressively.
mls: implements Multi-Level Security (MLS), which introduces even more kinds of
labels (sensitivity and category) and rules that govern access based on these.

This section provides guidance for the configuration of the targeted policy.
Note: This section only applies if SELinux is in use on the system. Recommendations for
AppArmor are also included, and additional Mandatory Access Control systems exist
beyond these two. AppArmor is the standard MAC system for Ubuntu systems.
References:
1. NSA SELinux resources:
1. http://www.nsa.gov/research/selinux
2. http://www.nsa.gov/research/selinux/list.shtml
2. Fedora SELinux resources:
1. FAQ: http://docs.fedoraproject.org/selinux-faq
2. User Guide: http://docs.fedoraproject.org/selinux-user-guide

63 | P a g e

