This document provides prescriptive guidance for establishing a secure configuration
posture for Ubuntu Linux 16.04 LTS systems running on x86 and x64 platforms.
Many lists are included including filesystem types, services, clients, and network
protocols. Not all items in these lists are guaranteed to exist on all distributions and
additional similar items may exist which should be considered in addition to those
explicitly mentioned.
The guidance within broadly assumes that operations are being performed as the root
user. Non-root users may not be able to access certain areas of the system, especially after
remediation has been performed. It is advisable to verify root users path integrity and the
integrity of any programs being run prior to execution of commands and scripts included in
this benchmark.
To obtain the latest version of this guide, please visit http://benchmarks.cisecurity.org. If
you have questions, comments, or have identified ways to improve this guide, please write
us at feedback@cisecurity.org.

Intended Audience
This benchmark is intended for system and application administrators, security specialists,
auditors, help desk, and platform deployment personnel who plan to develop, deploy,
assess, or secure solutions that incorporate Linux on a x86 platform.

Consensus Guidance
This benchmark was created using a consensus review process comprised of subject
matter experts. Consensus participants provide perspective from a diverse set of
backgrounds including consulting, software development, audit and compliance, security
research, operations, government, and legal.
Each CIS benchmark undergoes two phases of consensus review. The first phase occurs
during initial benchmark development. During this phase, subject matter experts convene
to discuss, create, and test working drafts of the benchmark. This discussion occurs until
consensus has been reached on benchmark recommendations. The second phase begins
after the benchmark has been published. During this phase, all feedback provided by the
Internet community is reviewed by the consensus team for incorporation in the

11 | P a g e

